[MUSIC]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, day two of
build better apps with Angular 2.
We are going to pick up
where we left off yesterday,
and kind of extent on those ideas.
And the goal for today,
is to understand how to compose multiple,
non-trivial features in Angular 2.
And so, we built a single component,
now we're going to endeavor to see kind
of how components kind of fit together.
And so,
kind of at the crux of that we're going to
talk about component system architecture.
So we're gonna do a quick
catch up with the routes that
we didn't get to yesterday.
So we'll do kind of maybe,
we're not gonna do the entire module but
enough to get us into the day two.
Which I think that if anybody did
the bonus thing, where you're gonna set up
the basic route you should be pretty
good but we're gonna do routes.
But then I really wanna focus on
component system architecture.
And if that's the only thing that
we walk away with over these next
two days, I would be pretty happy.
Cuz when you can understand that
fundamental shift of how components fit
together in Angular 2.
It is really, really powerful
in terms of what you can do.
How you can close your application and
what it brings in terms of
maintainability, stability,
extensibility and all the other abilities.
So here is the Agenda.
This is slightly different from what
we put out in the brief as we start to
actually put this content together.
We just realized that it would be
better kinda moving some things around.
So for instance, talking about
Angular observables in a vacuum,
is really actually boring.
And unless you're talking about it in
the context of doing something specific in
Angular.
It is more of kind of,
I think, a theoretical,
intellectual discussion,
at least initially.
Cuz the actual API for
an observable, is really,
on itself it's really quite simple.
It just doesn't really do a lot.
When you start to actually stack on
your reactive extension operators,
then things get really interesting.
So we kind of move the observables
bit into server communication.
And so that is where that
went if you're wondering but
we will get into it in depth tomorrow.
We'll have routing,
we'll talk about component composition,
touch on directives.
Forms, server communication and
time permitting, we'll talk about pipes.
The demo application for
today is going to be different than
the demo application from yesterday.
And we're going to be working on
a restful master-detail web application,
that communicates to a local
REST API using json-server.
And just like yesterday, we're going
to be building out a widgets feature.
And again,
feel free to use the existing code as
a reference point, and please explore.
So let me show you kinda
what this looks like.
So by master detail,
we have a master list of items.
And, just to the side of that,
then when you select an item
you can see those details.
Or, if no item is selected,
then you can save an item.
And so, my goal for the end of the day,
is that each and every one of you
has created a master detail view.
Where you're displaying a list of widgets,
you can then edit a widget,
delete a widget, create a widget.
And so, we're pretty much talking about
create, read, update, delete, and
communicating with a REST end point.
I really believe that once somebody
can kind of do this once, and
they understand it.
Then they can take this pattern and
apply it to just about anything.
And so, the code for
this is at this bit.ly link here.
And if you go to GitHub.com/100mind
it is in there as well.
So this is just a shorter version to that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And I'll
actually just show you what that looks
like real quick running in the browser.
Is, as the picture says
you can select this here.
Yes?
>> Audience: Just adds up,
[COUGH] in the readme,
you need to install json-server globally?
In order to get it to work and
it's not in the readme.
I found that out the hard way,
and give the heads up to chats.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You know what?
I do accept pull requests.
So but in this case.
>> Audience: I'm adding it right now.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Man, you're the best.
I think if everybody does a workshop,
like pro tip, have a wingman.
It's amazing.
So we're updating the readme
to have json-server but
this is the web application.
So you have your list,
you can select it, you can save it,
it's communicating with
the local json-server.
And you can see here that
we have this item's button,
we will be creating a widgets button
that basically puts into that route.
And we will be building this back up
in the context of your widgets feature.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: As well,
we have put up day two examples and
plunks.
And so, if you go back to
onehungrymind.com/fem-examples/.
You will see a fresh list of examples that
we will be using throughout the workshop
today.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Also personally,
between Scott and I our goal is because
we've covered quite a bit of the theory.
Is to move away from the slides a bit
more and actually do more coding.
So you can actually start to see
a little bit more live coding.
We'll probably be in the plunks a bit
more, so the slides are gonna pull away.
They're not gonna be nearly as text heavy.
And more so, it's just like let's just see
this in the code and kinda go from there.
So Scott and I are kind of balancing
each other out if you will.
But, let's do a quick review before
we get in to the routing module.
So, just to review
quickly the big picture,
we have our atomic building block
which is essentially the component.
And the template pair that
we're using event binding and
property binding to
communicate between the two.
The metadata is the glue that actually
tells Angular this template goes with this
component.
And from there, I really believe
that the rest of Angular is fairly,
I don't want to say trivial, but
it really just plays a supporting role.
So you have services that
are just JavaScript classes that
perform your business logic.
And if you need to modify or
augment behavior within the DOM but
you don't necessarily need a template,
then you use a directive.
And so, I was in an elevator and somebody
just like hey, tell me about Angular 2.
This is mentally the image
that I would try to convey is
you have component, a template.
They work together to
perform a kind of autonomous,
like self contained unit of work,
in any kind of business logic.
Then they leverage a service
to do that for them.
For instance,
any kind of server side communication,
any kind of rules engine, or
anything like that, goes into the service.
And then, any kind of additional DOM
manipulation would go into a directive.
And you can get through that in about 15,
20 seconds, and it's not too hard.
So we have shifted things
around a bit from Angular 1,
but in a lot of ways I think it's actually
become a little bit more straight forward.